right do you like see how that if I'm
trying to make something happen I'm the
one who's exerting the power you presume
that you have the control to make
someone love you otherwise you wouldn't
[ __ ] do it you actually have the
control they don't have the control what
you're terrified of is giving them the
capacity to not love you do you see that
the control is actually in your hands
not in theirs and that's why it's so
[ __ ] frustrating because the control
isn't actually in your hands but in your
mind that's what you're trying to do
like just think about it for a second
I'm trying to make someone love me I
can't do that
I have I would screen share my desktop
but I have deep brocco lactic as well I
just picked that up like a week ago
Galactic's a lot of fun man yeah how are
you where are you handling kovin um it's
interesting because like I feel like I
saw a lot of this like coming not kovat
specifically but I just knew there was
gonna be some type of scenario that was
gonna be kind of like catastrophic if
that sounds weird I kind of just yeah
I've felt that way for a while and so
like when this finally happened I wasn't
very surprised and I don't know I didn't
it wasn't really any shock for me kind
of like when it went along with it just
fine I'm introverted as is so I don't
have a problem with not leaving the
house for extended periods of time so I
don't know things that other people
don't know
mm I think I pick up on things that
other people don't pick up on the clues
are all there just some people can't
interpret them I feel like so you were
feeling like you kind of had a sense
that something was gonna happen and that
was sort of based on logic
interpretation of information and kind
of subconscious processing I are they
both Lee without getting too political I
was just looking at the state it's like
where we're going as a country got and
yeah it's just like so you're not like a
seer no no no no no that's this pointing
I mean there is definitely like a vibe
that I felt but but I definitely tied it
to like logic and reason right I would
you why'd you type to logic and reason
why do I attach it to a logic why do you
tell why do you tie your vibes to logic
and reason Oh
note the the I know what you're saying
you know the chicken didn't come before
the egg usually so I don't like to say
that I justify the way I feel with logic
sure but but the problem I don't know I
okay well I could be wrong we're getting
so maybe we can circle back to that yes
hmm yeah so sometimes I think just I'll
kind of share one or two thoughts about
that I think we underestimate where our
sources of knowledge like where we get
knowledge from and yeah I feel like I'm
aware of like being skeptical of where
I'm pulling my information from cuz I'm
very I feel like I have a lot of like
meta thinking that I've kind of like had
for a very long time which I'm huh kind
of ties into like anxiety and everything
that I heard I feel with people but I
just feel like I'm picking up a lot of
information that a lot of other people
don't in usual situations yeah so I just
think it's interesting that we default
to assuming that we're picking up that
information through things logic where
actually that in and of itself is not
logical right that we attribute the
sources of information to things like
rationalization or subconscious
processing but like what is that how do
we observe some conscious process
exactly yeah and that's I feel like
that's exactly what I was trying to say
is that I can't I am very open to the
idea of like where my being a seer sure
right anyway yeah so what are we talking
about today oh gee um so I know that the
sex Edition is probably gonna be like a
big thing on the hot list smoking
marijuana I definitely want to touch on
that but I don't know there's a lot of
different things that I have going off
with me my but basically I've been like
depressed for like the last I'd say at
least three or four years and and
everything is kind of tied together I
used to have a really good sense of
self-worth okay I feel like that got
deteriorated over time from
kind of going through these relationship
cycles okay
every single time I went through like
one of these little relationships and
everything like that it would kind of
just fire all the control afterwards if
there was like a breakup or whatever I
kind of I kind of noticed that I'm going
through these patterns what's the
pattern get into a relationship invest
emotionally very deeply after that's
done like that if we go our separate
decided to be to say that I'm kind of a
very emotional person
what's contradictive about that because
usually with people who are like the I
feel like the stereotype for someone
that's like very promiscuous or it could
be interpreted as promiscuous could be
like they're very callous they don't
care about people's connections or what
they're doing to the people around them
I feel like I'm very very focused on the
consequences of my actions
all the time so sounds exhausting
it is and I can't really turn it off
very well what do you mean it serviced
on the consequences of your actions
help us understand so I feel like from a
Rick a really early age I I saw like the
effects of like like basically going
through your life without analyzing or
being aware of like the the things
you're doing to the people around you I
I had like my father was kind of
basically the model of like what I
didn't want to become how so well okay
so my my dad and my mom were never
married I'm from a military family so
everyone is in the Navy my mom wasn't a
Navy my dad was in a Navy my stepdad was
in the Navy but
way they they basically met didn't you
know didn't get married or anything like
that my dad like got dishonorably
discharged from the military for drugs
back then it was like he was on the
hospital floors he was a nurse as well
but I think he was like doing liquid
cocaine but anyway blog story sure he
went through like rehab and everything
like that and my mom got pregnant with
me and then he left and did his own
thing and it's kind of left us you know
to our own devices over the years and so
and so I kind of just kind of wanted to
make sure like I always took into
account other people in my life so I
didn't want to become like him and what
is he like um so I would characterize my
dad is being kind of scared of his
emotions and probably good at ounce of
like some toxic masculinity thrown in
there I feel like he's done a lot of the
same mistakes that I've made in my life
but like he was not aware enough to
realize what he was doing and so that
now his life has kind of come back full
circle and these things that he's done
in the past they're kind of like
starting to haunt him I feel like he's
getting older and I think he's kind of
realizing that so og you said that you
didn't want to be like him why write
about him did you know well I didn't
want to not take into account other
people's lives that I'm ruining like so
ruin me basically my mom's been like
pretty scarred from it from like four
she's still like you know like you can
see certain things about people that
change over time and like obviously I
wasn't alive to see the change but like
I know it's affected my mom very
profoundly and then like what does the
fact of your mom very profound it's just
I feel his disregard for taking to
account like other people's feelings I
shouldn't do that by just carrying only
about himself being selfish I don't know
does that look like so you're giving me
conclusions all right you're saying like
he didn't care about people's feelings
but I'm like what how do you how do I
know like what did he do or not do right
right so I mean okay so the relationship
my mom did everything for my dad like
really took care of him when everyone
else kind of abandoned him is that what
was going on in his life that everyone
abandoned him basically getting
dishonorably discharged from the
military
it was pretty scandalous everyone that
he was on the floor with that was in on
them passing out drugs on the hospital
floor basically went to like federal
prison except for him and I have
suspicions that maybe I don't know that
he didn't go to then he didn't go to
federal prison because he bribed people
out or something is that one of the
things that you also don't want from him
you don't want to be a rat oh I don't
particularly care about that facet of it
and so after he was dishonorably
discharged how did he meet your mom wait
he didn't know your mom already at that
point yes no no no they were together
while they were in the military and like
they weren't married but that happened
you're gonna have to excuse me I'm like
I'm really like jittery right now I'm
kind of like really really nervous I
don't know if you can tell yeah we can
tell help me understand yeah why do you
feel nervous what do you think is going
on well let's try what do you feel just
uh well it's just a lot of pressure just
the topic and this the whole thing is
kind of helped me understand what
pressure you feel um I worry about
talking this openly about these very
intimate
in my life and I worry about it coming
full circle obviously I'm not using my
but like I'm a I am a nurse and so like
I've just you know my interactions with
that the community is interesting I
losing my license or you know just
appearing to be so dysfunctional in a
way that like it they could come and
haunt me essentially I understand that
you're afraid and I'm wondering whether
maybe the first thing that we should do
is help you with that fear right because
I'm in auditioning i I don't want you to
be like like keeping this fear at bay
over the course of the next hour sure
like I just don't think like that's good
that sounds like it's painful to me and
I don't want you to suffer
sure and and so is it okay if we try to
kind of address that for a moment okay
so the first thing is how would talking
like this how would this lead to losing
your license um I don't know this is
marijuana it gets involved like things
are very very in the gray area as far as
like what can be done legally sure to
people you know and so maybe we
shouldn't talk about marijuana sure
that's fine too
would you would that how would that help
your fear if at all
well I still want to talk about things I
think I'm just trying to I'm getting
comfortable at all it's just um I think
that as we go on I'll get more
comfortable yeah yeah but dude I don't
want you to lose your license because
you came on stream like that would be a
royal [ __ ] right now so just context
like I I'm at a point where I'm pretty
much a I I don't care anymore so it's
I'm moving into a different career just
that sounds really bad I'm I'm in
actively a full-time student in college
right now just moving towards a
different career and that's for a
different there's like yeah there's a
lot going on in my life
it's there's a lot so it sounds like
you're pretty overwhelmed and you're
dealing with a lot yeah is it too much
um I would say so what makes it feel
like it's too much I feel like I can't
get ahead I I feel for like every feel
like I'm treading water and I'm going
nowhere and I'm getting tired of
treading water not in the the I know how
that sounds but like I don't feel like
I'm getting anywhere all the I just feel
like all the advantage and disadvantages
are weighted against me
sure I mean the way I live right now is
not ideal I'm living in like a five not
even five hundred square foot like
studio apartment with my mom and like my
cats dying
I can't Scott cancer
yeah
is everything it's just very hard right
now and like it sounds really bad but
like this Kovach thing is just like I
don't even like that I don't even feel
like that's even messing with me like
I'm just dealing with all these other
things that have gone on with my life
like I lost I don't know I've lost a lot
and this is like basically what a lot of
my problems with sex and everything
comes from this because once I get into
these these spirals like I get to a
point where I just don't care to what
I'm doing to the people around me um and
then you become like your dad
yes and so there's a lot of
self-loathing that goes with it because
you're becoming the very thing that you
don't want to be yes you don't want to
do what other people what he did to you
and your mom yes and you can't stop nope
you know this is gonna sound kinda
random but maybe I'm trying to cut the
tension a little bit because I can see
you're Stern I wonder what it feels like
to become a vampire what kind of vampire
the Bram Stoker vampire or are we
talking like Twilight vampire I wouldn't
want to be a twilight vampire vampire
but I mean what I'm hearing you say oh
oh gee is that your ear you can feel
yourself becoming a monster
yes and you can't stop the
transformation yeah I I really do like
it sounds really weird but I I try my
best to be the best person that it can
be and I feel because I don't know I
feel like I'm working against that and
so like again feeds into that that
self-loathing
you're working against what being that
I'm working yes yeah okay sorry what I'm
seeing from you og is that you know I
think you seem exhausting to me yes yep
and you say you've been depressed for
three or four years I mean I'm sure that
a psychiatrist somewhere could diagnose
you with depression but what it feels
like is that you've been fighting for a
long time and you're just getting worn
down yep and it can be very very hard to
fight and struggle and get up every day
and try to shift the mountain of
[ __ ] that your life has become and
what I'm envisioning is a guy who wakes
up every day walks outside of his house
or 500 foot studio apartment with living
with your mom and outside your door is a
gigantic mountain and then you do your
work for the day which is pushing
against the mountain yep trying to get
it to move and then after a day of
pushing and pushing and pushing in the
mountain not going anywhere you go back
to your 500 foot studio apartment where
you live
your mom and you go to bed and then you
wake up the next day and then you walk
outside and you start pushing against
the mountain and it's not right it seems
like an exercise in futility it seems
like there are parts of you that say
that you have to try you have to change
you have to do better you have to do
more and then you walk outside and
there's just this [ __ ] mountain
sitting there and you know that you have
to move it and so you start pushing and
pushing and pushing but it doesn't go
anywhere and you feel stuck and you feel
like you're not making progress but you
don't want to be the guy who gives up
because your dad did that too
yep and that's I feel like that's a big
problem that I have is I can't let go I
can't let go of things it's really hard
for me too what is it that you feel like
you should let go what is it that you
hold on to I feel like sometimes like I
feel like I need to be able to give up
on things that I'm working on like I
wish that I could give I know it sounds
really cathartic or like saying uh well
but I mean I wish that I could give
myself a break but you know I'm not
quite sure how important this is oh gee
but you make a lot of comments about how
way how the things you say sound a
certain way have you noticed that yep I
did now you pointed it out I do notice
it now yeah what do you think is up with
that
why would you need to tell us that what
you're saying is not cathartic because
that's basically what you're doing I
have this bad habit of always trying to
be in other people's heads bad eyes all
the time
okay so that's fine but why is it
important for you to correct the
perception than other people have
I yeah I don't want to be seen a certain
way I I feel like I'm very probably way
too much in tuned with caring about what
other people think yeah how do you want
to be seen today you know I'm to the
point where I don't want to focus on how
I want to be seen I just care about how
I want to see me because that's I feel
like that's what matters how do you see
you exhausted yeah pretty bad person are
you a monster I I wonder like it makes
me think like with everything that's
happened to me that like I wonder if
there's like a breaking point and every
person and it doesn't matter it's just
across the board I wonder if there's
breaking points and people where it
doesn't matter like there's a point at
which everyone cracks are you broken um
I don't know I keep on breaking over and
over again so I don't know if there's a
state of it I don't know what's the
original thing to get put back in
together
yeah I mean you're laughing about that
but that sounds [ __ ] terrifying to me
yeah you know what I'm hearing is a guy
who's been broken time and time and time
again to where like you know the first
time something breaks you can take the
pieces and you can kind of like fit and
back together right yep but what I'm
hearing from you is that you've been
shattered beyond all recognition like
literally that's what you're saying that
you've been broken so much that we don't
even know what you're supposed to be
anymore
yeah maybe
um sorry I have my sense of humor is a
little off good I'm glad so it's how I
won in one bright point I've seen so far
actually there are a lot of bright
points about you but it's the one that
the it's the easiest to pick out so tell
us about this whole cycle about
relationships and getting into a
relationship and investing emotionally
um I I think I just give my all that's
it like that's the best way I can
describe it is I just I I feel almost
like powerful when I'm in relationships
because I feel like I could do anything
that I was ever required to do to make
things work like in like for example one
of my relationships I stopped what I was
doing I dropped out of college well I
didn't drop out of college but long
story short I was I had a really shifty
living situation with with my friends
but they blew our rent money on drugs
and so we were getting evicted and so I
was talking to this one girl and she
said to come to Tennessee and that you
know I could live with her and it would
be great and that I can go to school
over there and so I dropped everything
I've sold like everything I could to fit
everything in my car went across the
nation to try and make things work and
after like two and a half years of like
toiling out in the Sun doing manual
labor to like make things work it didn't
work out and it's ironic because I I'm
still in touch with that woman and the
she had the exact same thing happened to
her or it's actively going on and so
it's it's weird I don't look at the
exact same thing where you're in a
relationship with someone where you love
them and they could care less so used so
I wear in this relay you said that last
last I understood you moved across the
country to be with her for Tennessee
y'all were together for two and a half
years I didn't hear anything you were
doing manual labor out in the Sun and I
didn't hear anything about love like one
person loving and one person not caring
I mean I loved her and I was willing to
work as hard as I could to make things
work but I it's like a tug-of-war where
someone's not pulling on the other side
if you don't have that tension things
just fall apart like like I put in this
a much effort you reciprocate you should
at least match my effort it was always
like a black hole of me throwing
emotional investment just into whatever
you know it is so why were you guys
together for two and a half years then
um well things were okay in the
beginning there was a point of which you
know there was tension on that rope that
metaphorical rope and you know she tried
and I tried and you know things were
fine and as time went like to keep
things short and brief like I'm very one
political or I'm of one political
mindset and she's of the other and that
caused a lot of friction so and then
yeah okay so the first thing is I don't
think you necessarily need to keep
things brief okay right so so like and
because let me just explain to you for
example why I'm a little bit curious
about the situation because on the one
hand you say that there's kind of this
relationship of you throwing love into a
black hole you're not being reciprocated
and on the other hand I'm hearing that
like essentially the source of y'all's
problems is a political disconnect yeah
but there was a lot that happened
beforehand
I sorry I'm like I was very
self-conscious about time I to go into a
little bit deeper so she had a really
traumatic experience growing up she
she you know she had basically got raped
and she imprinted a lot of the things
like she would have flashbacks and then
she would imprint essentially that
trauma on to me so like that resulted in
like a whole bunch of number of weird
wonky things having to be done and
worked within the relationship like what
like basically we just didn't have sex
anymore because she imprinted those
experiences on her onto me and like I
was like okay that's fine
we we won't have sex anymore but I was
like that
I was so willing to keep the
relationship like alive and yeah and I
don't know the point at which like she
stopped caring but like that's basically
when things got really bad because once
we broke up
I know I'm hopping around a lot there's
just so much towards the end I was still
in nursing school and I had like six
months left of nursing school and she
decided to still see other people while
we were still living together and
so it was really hard I I finished
nursing school I passed I did my boards
uh-huh but that's a blanket man it was
it was really hard was it when fully
active with the people she was seen
while y'all were living together yes and
like that was the most frustrating thing
about it because that scenario like
frustrating in that there the thing that
I can't stand the most is when like
hypocrisy and like I will hold myself to
like a huge high standard to make sure
that I am NOT a hypocrite and anything
that I try to anyway so yeah like
essentially she had told me that this
experience in her life and affected her
in such a way that she couldn't have sex
with me anymore
and there was this disconnect and that
she was seeing other people
hey in the house or whatever and like
I'm still living there and then be like
it kind of just feels like why would it
be acceptable to see other people in
this way when this is the dynamic that
you like I don't know it I wasn't my fit
feel that she isn't having sex with you
when y'all are together and she's right
that was it was [ __ ] awful
that's it and like that went on for six
months I would be like on the phone with
my my best friend at the time like day
in day out just like in tears it's like
this is [ __ ] terrible like but I got
out of it I think someone feels about
themselves after an experience like that
I feel like [ __ ] and like I think that
like well I know personally that my
self-worth was severely damaged from
that experience and because it calls
into question for me like what I put up
with and what I didn't have to put up
with
and that I didn't advocate for myself
and a way to protect myself and so I
should've oh gee you're doing two things
right one is that that hurts your
self-worth because I can imagine that
you're kind of feeling like what's wrong
with me right like why is this woman
like who I'm giving so much into the
relationship and she's not willing to
have sex with me because of this made-up
trauma [ __ ] and I'm hyper I mean I
have no idea what was real and what
wasn't or anything I'm not saying that
she wasn't right traumatized but I can
imagine that if I were in your shoes I
would feel like something about that is
[ __ ]
right so I think you call it ever
accuracy my mind formula formulates that
as something that's coroner quote made
up which is unfair but it's an emotional
thought it's not a rational one right
like I mean it just sounds like [ __ ]
so you feel bad about yourself right so
like what's wrong with you and then you
do something else which is that you beat
yourself up for feeling bad about
yourself right there's a difference
between self-loathing and lack of
self-worth does that make sense
yes I feel like I have both going on no
no you have bought into the other yep
very good right so in terms of your
feeling overwhelmed so og let me just
jump in for a second okay so first of
all I think you can get better and I
think that I think that the mountain
that you're trying to move you're
actually making forward progress like
whether I just don't think that you're
able to perceive it right now so what
I'm hearing is a guy who's actually
incredibly resilient incredibly strong
incredibly smart and incredibly
reflective I'm hearing someone who I'm
talking to someone who I think is mortal
who cares about other people who wants
to be a good person and not out of
selfishness but like genuinely like
wants to be like good and successful in
kind other people and wants to be like a
force of like good and positivity in in
the P
around him yes and yes that's who you
are right and I think some things are
getting in the way of that and and our
goal here is like so the tricky thing
there is that it's hard to reconcile
being that person with hating yourself
like that's that's the real rub it's
like there's some there's a part of you
that feels like you're a piece of [ __ ]
and hates yourself because of it and
then there's a part of you that strives
to be better and like wants to be a good
person and actually you know goes bends
over backwards to accommodate people
that you care about and really just
prolongs what sounds like in some
situations like sort of toxic kind of
things which we can think about right so
so in in a bizarre way oh gee I think
that you're somewhat responsible for
your circumstances which is sort of a
double-edged sword so I think a big
problem that a lot of people have is
that they don't like you know you kind
of say when you when you look outside
you said something about that the
advantages and disadvantages are stacked
against you so that sort of makes sense
and can be comforting in some way
because it's like not our fault but it's
also kind of like doesn't give us a road
forward because then like what do we do
about that right if life is just [ __ ]
you over then like you can't really do a
whole lot about that but yeah go ahead
um and so like that's a dynamic that
I've been having to deal with it's like
I I so like to add to that stack of
[ __ ] like I lost pretty much two of
my best friends at the beginning of the
year just to get that's like a whole
nother thing but um how did you lose
your best friend how does one lose the
best friend um essentially like they got
into it a friend group that didn't
really care for me and I sent like I've
known these people for like one of them
I knew for I've known over for 15 years
and the other one I've known him but I
wasn't friends with him until about like
five years
and I've known him for 15 years - and
like the reason why I feel like I'm very
hyper concerned about what other people
think of me is because I've I lost two
of my friends essentially and two
possibly like the circumstances that I'm
in and I can't like I don't feel like
they understand or feel the like the
weight of everything that's going on in
my life and they all they see is dude
that [ __ ] you know is staying with
his mom and you know not gonna go
anywhere you know that's a that's a real
fear for me they abandoned you because
you're a loser sure that's yeah I mean I
wouldn't put it so harshly but yeah yeah
that embodies the idea perfectly though
yeah I mean that's what I'm hearing you
say you're just saying it in more words
yeah so oh gee I mean I'm kind of
noticing a pattern here it sounds like
people yeah people suck my interactions
with people that's yeah I usually feel
like I have like a an interaction where
I'm giving a lot and never receiving
yeah
so let's stand about that for a second
go ahead sorry and that kind of ties
into a lot I I might be like assuming a
lot but I'm positive that probably feeds
into like the behaviors I have around
like sex what are some of those
behaviors
um
I'm trying to think of where to start so
me being a person that's very very
concentrated on like consequences of my
actions I'm having to deal with feeling
like what are the behaviors oh it's just
ok actual verbs of what I'm was
basically going on is just like ace I'm
using okay I'm using four different
dating apps widely technically five if
you conclude if you include Facebook's
dating services and I'm basically
approaching it like a salesman
approaches like leads and sales while
using like a law of averages just to try
and you know basically go through five
different apps and go for a numbers game
approach rather than actual and
emotional and what are you looking for
um anything anything something is better
than nothing
is basically what it comes down what are
you getting what am I getting um I'm
getting interesting like interactions
with people I would never normally
interact with I'm getting sex I'm
getting like an emotional temporary like
an emotional band-aid I feel like it's
the best way to describe it
so what happens when you have sex it
it's basically a different form of drug
for me my problems
tend to just evaporate out of my head
and I don't think about those things
anymore and I'm kind of free for that
time and that that's kind of the reason
why I smoke so much is that it puts me
into like a mental state of which I
don't feel burden
anxiety or like the pain of like
everything that's going on around me
is that why you consider yourself
addicted to sex no it's the the
frequency it's the number of people and
it gets very out of hand the worse
things are for me and that given the
situation so like like the relationship
cycles
and everything that I go through it gets
particularly bad can you walk
so when I went to Tennessee and that
didn't work out and you know [ __ ] was
hitting the fan and I was in nursing
school and like everything was just like
putting that downward force on me like I
had to just have some type of like
escape and so again like I know anything
from everything okay I felt like I just
needed to be away from so I'm in my
second okay sure so I want you to I want
to explain to you why you're trying to
move mountains so what are you explore
are you running away from what hailey
no no [ __ ] don't try to be Freudian I'm
asking you I asked you like what were
you trying to get away from him what was
your answer everything okay
how do you fix that fixing my
circumstances around me no I'm asking
you how do you fix everything oh let's
say I come to you oh gee and I'm your
friend I'm the one best friend that
didn't abandon you I'm gonna say oh yes
my life is falling apart what do you say
I don't know how can I help
what's going on well so what's going on
is everything is going wrong yeah it
doesn't sound like you're very you know
you can help by fixing everything can
you help me fix everything
no I see what you're saying what am i
saying that I need to if I want to make
change in my life I needed to approach
it in a systematic way an organized way
instead of just saying everything is
wrong there there's no way to solve
everything I need to actually probably
maybe have a plan of attack
maybe sure so I think you're even you're
you're moving you're moving way too fast
buddy
you're on the highway already so I'd say
the first thing is like if you're even
moving one step ahead of where I am so I
think the first thing to understand is
that like if you're if everything it
like so if we just listen to what you've
said today
okay your cat has cancer you live in a
studio apartment you're addicted to sex
you're making a career change so
obviously something with the nursing was
not working out yeah that was a whole
nother story to the shirt yeah so so and
what what you feel is overwhelmed right
because every dimension of your life
you're getting [ __ ] like your friends
are abandoning you your cat is dying you
know interesting that you chose to be a
nurse with all this business with your
father and and I don't even know what's
going on there yeah yeah they're
everyone's nurses in my family yeah my
stepdad my mom and my dad we're all
nurses it's like I don't know it felt
like can I keep talking yes yes sir I'd
like you to just try to listen if that's
okay so I think the issue here is that
like when you look at your life I think
it makes sense because you look at your
life and you see a life where they're
like there's like good evidence that
everything around you is kind of falling
apart but the challenge is that like
everything is not something that you can
fix right so like I understand that
you're talking about a plan of attack
we're not even there yet let's first
understand that the reason that you
can't move a mountain is because you
you've made a monolith of all of your
problems and so no wonder because like
you wake up every day in your mind ask
to self the question okay what's wrong
because that's what our mind does our
mind tries to help us out and then your
mind is like well everything is wrong
so there's the problem-solving part of
your mind that's like okay oh gee what's
wrong and then oh gee says everything is
wrong and then the mind is like okay how
do I fix that and oh jeez like I'm not
sure and then your mind doesn't know
what to do and then then you're sitting
with this like sense of like
impossibility of like fixing everything
in your life and then you end up coping
right so when when anytime I see someone
that has multiple addictive behaviors I
don't think about addiction as the
diagnosis I think about it as a symptom
so in your case what you're addicted to
is avoidance right so like whether you
get that through a substance or a sexual
relationship or video games or whatever
are reading a warhammer book
the other tricky thing here is that like
there's a spectrum of something like
when you when it's not that bad we call
it coping and when it is bad we call it
addiction but I think it's it's
artificial that these things are binary
it's like they're on a spectrum so the
question is like what are you running
away from and and when you say
everything like I don't think that's
something you can fix I think if you try
to solve everything in your life and
everything being wrong is the problem
you're gonna feel this way for the rest
of your life it's an issue of conception
of what your problems are
and I think if the core of it is anyway
I'm gonna pause for a second so any
thoughts about that um I I would say
that that when I said everything I feel
like it's just the way it it's
describing my feelings I feel it yes and
like I don't rationalize it in my head
as like I can't win or that you know I'm
not attacking my problems like I can do
something about this problem like I
don't look at it as one big giant I try
not to so let me jump in for sex which
is exactly why I think a plan of attack
is not your problem so you're saying
that if I'm gonna if I feel like
everything is the problem in my head I
don't actually think everything is a
problem I recognize that my cat is dying
I don't have friends on making career
changes because the interesting thing is
that oh gee you actually seem very
adaptive to me right so like I think you
the plan of attack is actually not where
you're you're missing out you're saying
you're assuming that I'm saying you need
a plan of attack no I don't think you
need a plan of attack because you've
demonstrated so you say you kind of
talked about this relationship where you
moved across country right to be with
this woman you spent two and a half
years with her and then you described
you six months of a period of time where
she's [ __ ] other dudes and she won't
wouldn't [ __ ] you for two and a half
years and the troll part of me was like
how the [ __ ] can you be a sex addict if
you
not having sex in a relationship but you
know I didn't say that right right right
and so I mean while that was going on
like I was going on my little like to
talk back about the behaviors if I had
to like describe like what that was like
it was like like three days out of the
week I saw three different women and I
was just going through apps like it like
an addict sure like that's so so my
point is that like so this looks like a
bad scenario right like everything that
I just described seems like a bad
scenario but I actually think there's a
lot of good stuff here so let me here
like this I know this is gonna sound
weird but so the first thing is that you
were in a situation where you took
drastic changes and just didn't sit
there so you decided to like up and move
and try to make something of your life
you moved across country you know you
sold whatever you needed to you took
drastic steps I think a lot of the
people that watch twitch and watch our
stream wish they could do what you did
they feel stuck because they're the ones
that don't ever move out they don't move
across countries they there aren't
they're talking to a girl but they don't
have the balls to actually try to make
it work so the first thing is that
you're adaptive and you're willing to
make change which i think is a huge plus
the second thing is that you try for two
and a half years to make this
relationship work like I know a lot of
people that are like I'm not gonna get
laid I'm done in six months right or
even three weeks or three day night I
really did love her and that's like so
we'll get to that all that crap in a
second do it my point though is that
like once again you're your so this is a
guy who's adaptive willing to make
drastic changes willing to like it
doesn't give up easily right and then
also like even though things are really
really bad like manages to finish
nursing school even though you're living
with someone who won't [ __ ] you and will
[ __ ] other dudes and you mean like you
managed to not drop out like what the
[ __ ] man that's amazing
I shall OTT of your other streams and
like I don't remember your guests name
but like I really resonated with his
situation and that like well I think you
were talking about how like there's an
inevitable fee
that you're gonna run into failure right
and I'm kind of getting in there I
procrastinate like sure well do terrible
terrible and I just feel like as I'm
going further in academia like I'm
getting that reality check the further I
go guys and what as if I don't change
something about my behaviors I will not
be able to keep so so my points it no G
about sharing all these positive things
is I think you actually demonstrate
through your history that you're pretty
good at developing a plan of attack
that's not where your problem is so I
don't think your solution is to get
better at a plan of attack because I
just think just take any one thing let's
just take the one thing about moving to
Tennessee you wake up one day and you
realize that you're you're drug addict
roommates have used all your rent money
for drugs and you're being evicted I
would just fall apart and roll around on
the ground outside for about a few days
before I even know what no what to do
and you start plan of attack I can't
take all this stuff to Tennessee where
am I gonna go what are my options okay
Tennessee there's something there that I
could make work I can't make life into
life
lemons into lemonade right and then
you're like I can't take all my [ __ ]
because I only have a car so I have to
sell some [ __ ] it's not leaving on the
side of the road it's actually some so
you made a little bit of money you sold
some stuff like there are all kinds of
problems you could and then you move
across country you move in with her
she has trauma okay plan of attack how
are we gonna do that we're gonna be a
good boyfriend we love her we're gonna
support her we're not gonna pressure and
her into sex we're gonna try to make
this work plan of attack all right now
we're breaking up there's something
going on
she used to be emotionally invested in
the relationship there's no more tension
in the rope she's not emotionally
invested in the relationship things are
not working out we're gonna break up you
guys break up okay now she's [ __ ]
other dudes plan of attack what am I
gonna do I'm gonna [ __ ] other chicks
right plan of attack is not your problem
your problem is not that like this is a
monolith that needs to be broken down
there actually that's your problem is
that you need to change the perception
that everything is wrong in your life
because it is the perception that
everything is wrong in your life that is
making you feel overwhelmed because
you're actually really good at managing
problems
that's the bizarre thing you actually
have a bizarre amount of forward
momentum and change in adaptation in
your life I know it doesn't feel that
way to you but it's which is fair so my
point is that like this needs to start
with your feelings not with your attack
not with your actions you don't need to
be doing things differently you need to
be feeling things differently because
you're actually it sounds like you're
you manage you just manage really really
well man so so like and now we get to
like where do these feelings come from
right so we can talk about you know the
sex addictive behaviors and I'm sure
that that may be titillating but in my
mind like I don't I don't know that like
diving down into the way in which you
like or you know on five dating apps
like I'm sure that's worthwhile to talk
about but I don't think that like
spending an hour talking about the way
in which you use dating apps is gonna
help you yeah right
so like if we're really here so now we
have a fork in the road which is like do
we want to satisfy the voyeurism of
twitch at and and you know like like do
we have a conversation about like how do
you get laid because people like how the
[ __ ] I wish I don't find dating apps
right listen up to it right so that's
absolutely a conversation that we can
have but I mean I think at the end of
the day I try to do live streaming as if
I'm having a conversation with one
person and I try to help that person
it's like my biggest question for you og
is how many people have told you or have
demonstrated to you that you're not good
enough ooh that one hurts a lot a lot I
don't know that feeling would definitely
drive deep in probably feeling like the
way I do about my dad is definitely like
I wasn't good enough to you know have
those types of like father/son
interactions or to have enough
like investment into my life that you
know so if you're not I want you to I
want to ask you something when when your
ex-girlfriend when you started to feel
like you weren't good enough for her
how hard did you try oh my [ __ ] oh [ __ ]
no I like we tried very hard
I don't know out okay so so how how
overwhelmed so the the harder you tried
if I were to draw a graph where the
x-axis is trying hard in the y-axis
sorry the x-axis is let me think about
this
so let me just ask the question in a
different way yeah the more that you
feel you felt like inadequate or that
you weren't good enough you tried harder
right yeah and and when you were trying
really really hard how overwhelmed did
you feel I felt like I was always like
pushing against a wall all the time
right so like this is gonna sound really
bizarre and I hope this makes sense your
problem oh gee is that you're pushing
against a wall and that's futile and so
I want you to just think about this the
problem isn't that you're unable like
the problem is it that you're weak the
problem is that you're pushing against
something that is immovable your
solution is not to like get stronger so
you can push the mountain the solution
is to stop trying to push them out like
I don't know if you know how to
translate that into your actual life but
do you see what I'm saying you're
setting up a situation where futility is
the only result but just let's just
think about this so you feel like you're
not good enough so you try extra hard
and the harder you try the more
overwhelm do you feel in the more
powerless you feel the funny thing is
that that feeling like you wouldn't feel
overwhelmed or powerless if you weren't
pushing does that make sense like
there's there's a futility like you just
think about this the harder you try
you're like giving everything and you're
giving everything and you're giving
everything and nothing is working and
nothing is working and nothing is
working and everything is wrong in your
life and there's nothing you can do and
you wake up every day and it's just a
slog and you can't take it anymore
you've been doing this for years and
you've been trying and trying and trying
and all of your effort is futile you're
worthless it's a whole big mess of
worthlessness and it starts with you
trying because just imagine this for a
second if you didn't try then are your
actions futile
I see what do you see explain it to us I
[Applause]
think what you're talking about
is that if I set an expectation of win
or fail if I don't have expectations of
winning or failing and trying is kind of
like implied into you know conquering
whatever it is that I'm trying to
approach but if I get rid of the
expectation then there is no there is no
struggle that's not exactly where I was
going from it I think this is a this is
a problem of you watching too much of
our content it's a little bit of a joke
so I'm glad you've learned a lot yeah
but I'm gonna try to I'm gonna try to
like actually mold it a little bit more
what I or what I want you to understand
is that you were setting up a problem
for yourself that you cannot win right
sure and so like this is what this is
what exhausts frustrates and makes
people want to give up is you set
yourself up against an unsolvable
problem and then you try a lot and then
you like feel like a failure over and
over again even though like the game is
[ __ ] rigged the problem is that not
that life sets the advantages and
disadvantages against you that are like
against you it's that you're setting
you're setting yourself up for absolute
failure and and the problem is that when
you set yourself up for absolute failure
you give forth absolute effort and you
love a hundred and ten percent and you
try a hundred and ten percent and you
put up with all kinds of [ __ ] that is
really like unreasonable to put up with
whether it's like yeah I mean I don't
don't even get me started there there's
all kinds of weird signs that like
there's just like there's a pattern of
like people [ __ ] you over right yes
the thing is like I don't think you're
that dumb I think it's because you set
yourself up for people [ __ ] you over
because you give in too much into the
relationship when you should say I
shouldn't try to push against this wall
anymore
you try to make her love you when
that's not something you can do right
right I learned that yes yes but I don't
think you did so like you learned
actually what you learned is that you
can't make her love you but you're sure
as hell gonna try the next person and
you're sure as hell gonna try the next
person and you've been learning this
lesson over and over and over again with
individual people but you haven't
learned it in general because you tried
to get your two best friends to love you
you tried to get this girl to love you
and you tried to get your dad to love
you and the reason that you try is
because you're trying to get everyone to
love you because at the core of it you
feel like you're unlovable and this is
the thing is that has to come out root
and stem right and I feel like a lot of
it is like I can't love myself like
that's something I'm really trying hard
to do is like have compassion for myself
and yeah the self-loathing right so like
not only you're unlovable
you beat yourself up for being unlovable
and all of these behaviors like do you
see the patterns of trying like putting
yourself in situations where people
essentially take advantage of you and
then you're like oh [ __ ] that I'm not
gonna let these people take advantage of
me you move across country and you let
someone else take advantage of you and
then you're like [ __ ] that I'm done with
that now you're over here and then you
let someone else take advantage of you
this pattern is actually of your own
making I don't think you're that unlucky
like this is not random chance like when
we see this pattern over and over and
over again I think you're creating it
yeah I was I feel like I was like I
couldn't quite I don't know it's like I
felt like I was responsible for a lot of
like I was like this can't just be a me
thing or it them thing I should say out
there I'm definitely a part of this
problem and I just I need to figure out
what exactly so yeah the question like
so now like what I really want you to
tunnel down is I think there are going
to be some cases where if we tunnel down
I would make this prediction that there
are some moments where you feel
unloved and someone is mistreating you
and in that moment instead of
acknowledging their mistreatment what
you do is you try to make them love you
by like giving more yep because the
thought of being unlovable is so
intolerable to you because you've been
hurt this way over and over and over
again that like that becomes the spot
that you try to protect and this isn't
something you know okay I'm gonna just
feel it's just feelings it's cool yeah
so like I want you guys to understand
this like if you have a weak point right
let's say I take an arrow to the knee
and then like the next day I take an
arrow to the knee and the next day that
I take an arrow to me what happens is I
start protecting myself like I'm going
to put like armor over my knee because
like that's where I keep on getting hit
right make sense
the problem is that the way that you try
to protect yourself from feeling unloved
is to put yourself in situations where
that are untenable and will make you
eventually feel rejected it's like
you're you're putting on armor that has
a bull's-eye on it right like you're
creating these patterns where you're
essentially letting people abuse you
like over and over and over again like
you're creating abusive relationships
for yourself you're creating situations
of abandonment what are you over and
best because instead of like the problem
here what I'm telling you og is the
problem is not not trying hard enough or
not being strong enough it's trying too
hard it's pushing against a wall that
you can't move I yes and like what a
thing that I'm afraid of too is that I
worry about what happens when I turn
that engine off beautiful that's your
[ __ ] problem that's exactly what you
need to do you need to face that fear
you need to accept that there's a
possibility that people may not love you
instead of trying to control them and
make them love you you have to accept
that maybe they don't
and this is the [ __ ] paradox thing
this is why Zen is so paradoxical when
you start doing that people will start
loving you when you accept that people
may not love you and that you can't make
them love you when you let go of that
control and you let go of that paranoia
and you're also going to stop tolerating
the abusive behavior because you're
going to say to yourself okay this
person is not treating me right I can't
make them treat me right and they don't
love me so be it therefore I don't have
to double down and invest twice as much
in the relationship Oh like I'm pushing
against this wall and it's not moving
because it's attached to a bank and the
bank is 500 like thousand square feet
and it's made of brick in cement and I
can't push it oh maybe I should stop but
that's not what you do because like when
you feel the resistance of someone not
loving you when that feeling of not
being loved arises within you you push
harder and harder and harder and harder
and harder and it doesn't cause the
mountain to move and it just leaves you
exhausted
I think you figured me out dr. kay what
does that do for you though I figured
you out fantastic
I'm gonna go have lunch now go [ __ ]
yourself and like the problem I I feel
like I feel like I come to like very
similar conclusions just I feel like
yours is your conclusion is super
eloquent and like how it compasses
everything it's just I'm like I'll get
to the point where like okay like the
problem is coming from me how do I stop
this how do I like exactly yes so how
what do you do with this man what do you
think it's hard I have to be like
willing to let go of a lot how do you be
willing to let go I'm gonna help you
don't worry my point is that everything
up until this point is worthless without
the next step you get that but I've not
helped you 1% like helping you is gonna
be binary today we can go 99% of the
road but unless we can help you with the
next step this doesn't help at all
you with me okay like showing you what
your problem is like shirred good
diagnosis proceeds good treatment but
like good diagnosis with no treatment is
worthless so there are two solutions
okay the first thing is I want you to
recognize this as it's happening and
stop pushing there are going to be
moments and I don't even I'm not I'm not
gonna say they're going to be moments
who it cuz I just don't accept this for
a second who in your life right now are
you trying to win over thank you maybe
not good
are you trying to win over myself it's
late okay I'm I don't know I'm trying
I'm really trying not to like personally
am I my goal well my challenge right now
that I'm trying to work through is just
trying to be independent because I've
you've kind of tapped into like a lot of
my codependency issues that I've had
throughout yes
and my thing is I just want to be
independent
I don't okay KITT yes I'm trying to be
independent how do you try so what do we
do what's our solution to that in that
regard um I need some source of like
love that it's not coming from external
sources like I need it correct look no
so remember that the goal here is to
stop trying right yes so you're trying
to be independent so what should you do
not care about being independent
absolutely you should accept that you're
not ready to be independent and being
independent means not relying on
external sources of love so what should
you do not care in correct
you should care you should rely on
external sources of love whatever
direction you're going in your head
right now you need to move in the
opposite direction okay yeah because
this is can I just get young thing that
I feel like I have a problem like the
reason I feel like another thing that
ties in my self-loathing into this whole
little cycle too is like hey the stigma
of everything I'm doing but be that's
okay if it's important it'll come back
sure
continue though I'll come back I'll
remember it okay so like this is exactly
my point
right so like like you're trying to be
independent and how many times have you
told yourself that uh like every day
like when are we going to like
everything's kind of like a little bit
of like avoidance right now yeah so when
did you start telling yourself that you
need to be independent as soon as my mom
probably got into the apartment that was
a correct no well it has been going on
I'm feeling predominantly that way right
now
yeah you're telling me that when you
were growing up you didn't have thoughts
that I need to get on I need to get by
without my dad because he's not going
didn't know really right I didn't feel
that way as in I felt like I had to win
him over as in like I didn't think of
how do I go about my life without this
thing I went about my life thinking how
can I get this thing and you also didn't
have I'm a little bit surprised that
actually means I'm wrong but so but you
didn't you didn't eventually conclude
that like you need to get on without
your dad like he's not gonna show up and
that you need independence um I have
done a really good job of just like out
of sight out of mind with my dad for a
lot of years now because there was a
point where he is gonna be who he is and
whatever right so that speaks to me of
independence okay right so like at some
point you gave up on him and you decided
like it seems to me like you learned how
to be independent and you had to become
independent because he wasn't [ __ ]
around like he wasn't around right
yeah anyway so I mean I think ultimately
that's not you know I so I have like my
sense
oh geez that all this crap is related so
your desire for your independence your
tendency to be codependent your hunger
for people to love you has to relate to
lists like general ID like why do people
need to feel loved by other people why
do you need to make other people love
you go ahead you ever thought yes I
remembered what I was going to say
so like the stigma was a and then B is
just like the way it makes me feel
knowing that I have to approach
something external and it can't come
from within me like everything like
these these drugs like sex and
everything like that in order to make
myself feel happy or content I have to
approach something external and it can't
something with it
this is gonna be really confusing but
like that is what you need to accept
because I know this is gonna sound
really [ __ ] weird but I want you to
really run with me for a second okay
okay when you make try to make someone
love you who is in control they are
incorrect no okay go ahead think I'm
gonna ask the question again when you
makes when you're trying to make someone
love you who is the agent that has power
where is the action it's in my desire to
want to make it happen so it's yeah it's
not even your desire your exerting
effort on another human being to make
them love you right do you like see how
that if I'm trying to make something
happen
I'm the one who's exerting the power you
presume that you have the control to
make someone love you otherwise you
wouldn't [ __ ]
do it you actually have the control they
don't have the control what you're
terrified of is giving them the capacity
to not love you do you see that the
control is actually in your hands not in
theirs and that's why it's so [ __ ]
frustrating because the control isn't
actually in your hands but in your mind
that's what you're trying to do like
just think about it for a second I'm
trying to make someone love me I can't
do that but even I'm trying to make that
implies that like I'm trying to make a
chair I'm trying to make a bowl of
noodles I'm trying to make a life for
myself I'm trying to make a light that
turns on like who's in control in all of
those statements so this is me fighting
against that metaphorical wall again yes
absolutely yes but the thing here is
that what you need to do is stop trying
to be independent stop trying to control
other people because that's still you
that's you being independent because you
are not actually in a relationship with
another human being who has thoughts and
feelings you have all of the
relationship that you're bearing on your
shoulders you're pulling the rope
entirely there's no tension on the other
side because you're owning all of that
responsibility you're taking all of that
responsibility and you're trying to make
them love you and you're pushing pushing
pushing pulling pulling pulling so much
love into the void do you see that it's
all one-sided
everything about this is one sided with
me okay when I push against the wall
does the wall push back like my physics
but I see what you're saying no it does
not it's most in your scenario it's
mostly just me exerting effort the walls
just being there yeah and actually if
you want to go like really five head you
throw in physics because you're right
that whatever you throw in no matter how
hard you try what is the result
you stay the same because this
ex-girlfriend exerts an equal and
opposite force to make sure that the
relationship doesn't move forward right
so you're actually right both cases are
true now we see why your life is futile
because you set up this like we
you're you know psychophysics
experiment where you're exerting a lot
of futility because you're trying to
control everything you are living in a
world where there is your assumption is
that there is not an equal and opposite
reaction I am making her love me there's
no agency on her her end because you
can't surrender the fact that people may
not be able to love you
once you surrender that people may not
be able to love you and furthermore that
you're not an island unto yourself that
you can't be independent right now and
that like I hate to break it to you
buddy but what you need is love like you
get that like you need someone to love
you in the way that you love them yeah
that's the way it feels essentially yeah
and so the like don't ignore your
feelings and say like just think about
this for a second you're hungry and
thirsty for love you've been hungry and
thirsty for love theoretically your
entire life right and and and every time
someone doesn't love you it hurts and so
you go and like the way to take someone
who's hungry and thirsty is we don't
tell them you need to be independent of
hunger and thirst like that's doesn't
[ __ ] work man right you need to be
loved in the way that you're gonna get
loved is by recognizing that you can't
make someone love you and then you've
gotta roll the dice and I can almost
guarantee you that for patterns as baked
in as yours are there's someone right
now in your life that you are trying to
win over and you do it every moment when
you think about how other people
perceive you because in that moment
you're not letting your you're not even
letting us judge you you're saying like
oh this like statement I know it sounds
cathartic but it's not you're trying to
control our perception even now yeah let
us think whatever the [ __ ] we want about
you let us see you for who you are and
and be let yourself be free from the
possibility that we think you're an
awful person
or that your idiotic free yourself and
we think you're a dumbass
twitch ad thinks you're a dumbass so
what let go of trying to control other
people's perceptions let go of trying to
make other people love you and once you
do that you're gonna stop investing your
energy into a futile problem and if
you've not investing your energy in a
futile problem lo and behold you may
start investing it in things that can
actually like start to bear fruit and
then like oh what the [ __ ]
we're actually like not treading water
because we're moving in a direction the
energy investment of treading water and
moving in a direction is basically the
same the problem is that like you're in
the ocean and you found an island and
you're pushing against it instead of
like actually moving somewhere else or
like getting out of the water the
analogy is falling apart at this point I
guess I understand that so very
concretely I want you to think about
your relationships and notice within
yourself like when do I feel unloved
that's what you have to tap into I yeah
it hits me really quickly you know I'm
always a big proponent of you know
actions speak more than words and like
that's the first thing I look at is like
are they behaving in a way that shows
affection now so okay yeah so now we see
like why you have relationship cycles
right because like you come in and like
when you perceive an action that's an
insult to your like self-worth you have
to emotionally invest to like balance
that I don't know if that makes sense
but like someone does something like
they don't return a text and then you
feel unloved and then like then the
cycle begins and then you have to invest
more in the relationship because you
have to get them to love you and then
they don't return another text and then
you have to get them to love you even
more do you see that like that's the
trigger
the biggest thing is that you have to
acknowledge like when they don't return
the text you have to catch it then and
there that sometimes people just don't
return texts and it's not because like
there's something wrong with you but the
problem is that you have like been hit
it like you have been hurt so many times
that your fear that you're unlovable
starts to see things in the shadows that
are not there right it's like walking
outside when it's dark outside and
seeing a rope on the ground and thinking
it's a snake it's an analogy that's from
an Ayurvedic textbook that doesn't
really translate here because we don't
have snakes in America but and we do but
anyway it's like yeah no not not in
Boston yeah but I see so let me just be
very very concrete okay so the first
thing is for you to recognize the
feeling of being unlocked and then
recognize that that feeling of being
unloved is gonna push you to engage in
certain behaviors and you have to
isolate those you have to see what they
those are and then the third thing is to
recognize that the stuff going feeding
into the feeling of aunt being unloved
may be incorrect this is a cognitive
bias right sometimes people just don't
return text that doesn't mean that they
don't think you're a good person
yes yeah I I feel like I actually with
the example of texting I feel like I you
know I'll feel the emotion and I feel
like I'm very good about catching those
already because I will rationalize it
down and I'll address it with logic like
no no no you know people are busy they
have things going on their lives that
you are not the center of their universe
you know they have you know who are you
to them whatever you know like oh you
were doing great until that last
sentence who are you to that yes you're
unlovable to them you're not worth it to
them see you are not the center of their
universe you were doing great
everything was rational until that
unlovable some scarf popped up and said
you are not worth their time
you see how that happened I hope you
guys caught it on Twitch at first couple
things were rational third thought was a
some scarf
this [ __ ] is subtle in its deep my
friend you're doing very good but it's
still trickier it's trickier than you
are I try I tried really hard to catch
it though good and so you should keep
trying
cuz it's good you you caught the first
couple but I'm not supposed to try
exactly now we get to the next thing
right which is which is when you would
don't actually wrestle when you
rationalize it you don't actually deal
with it emotionally the question that
you need to ask yourself is you know
sure you can rationalize they don't have
you know they can't be around all the
time but what does it feel like to not
be a priority for them and sit with that
feeling because then like then you throw
yourself a pity party and like don't do
that like it's okay to like not be for
someone's priority can I sit with that
feeling can I sit with the feeling that
I don't feel like a priority to them and
I don't want that to change my action I
actually don't want to try I don't want
to try to protect myself from that hurt
because that's one option right I'm not
gonna text him again [ __ ] it or I'm
gonna get I'm gonna try to get them to
love me more like don't do anything just
sit you need to not do anything notice
those feelings of rejection and just sit
with them for a while and it's gonna
feel bad it's like you ever cleaned out
a garbage disposal oh yes pretty mucky
yep so like you know the feeling when
you first put your hand into the garbage
disposal where you like almost gag yeah
and then like what happens the few
seconds after that you're like my hands
already wet might as well go the entire
yep we're right so like the first three
seconds of putting your hand into a
garbage disposal or the worst part and
then once you're in the filth
it's then you can then you're fine you
get what I'm saying yes so you need to
put your hand in the guard I mean
obviously not way it's all on or
anything right yeah but yeah but like
you need to sit in the filth which are
not ready to do and what you'll realize
is like sure it's mucky but like
after time it's not going to be that bad
right an acknowledge that your unlovable
and acknowledge that you can't be
independent and acknowledge that in
order for you to be healed you need to
be loved and then the most terrifying
thought is that that's not something
that you can guarantee and understand
that for the rest of your life there is
a chance that when you die you will
still be broken and if you can do that
then you'll start to move forward it's
it's really hard for me to like quit or
like not even quit like it's hard for me
to give up on things like yes it's
really hard you're like I I teach
martial arts on the side
I run a judo program at a university
here and like there's so much there's
there's so many times where I'll just
teach hurt like I'll be hurt like I have
a grade two sprain in my left ankle
right now and I'll still teach on it I
haven't teach taught recently because
they close down all the classes and
everything like that because of kovat
but like like I'm always I don't know
it's really there's the trying again yep
so now beautifully said so oh gee I
don't know exactly what this is gonna
look like for you but I think what you
should do is notice those things about
yourself where you don't want to give up
and then try to give up or if you can't
give up then give up on giving up and at
least accept don't try but say like oh
[ __ ] it this is not gonna work like I'm
a dumbass and I'm gonna teach on this
this messed-up ankle because I'm so
attached to this that I'm not willing
like my pride is so big that I'm not
willing to like look feel ashamed in
front of people because I have an injury
because I'm the teacher and I was
supposed to be invincible
that's this complex in my head and it's
too big of a ball for me to restrain you
can do that too or you can actually sit
out your judo class if you're injured
that's those are the reps that you need
to do you need to start by giving up
little little little things and it's
good that you notice that that's
beautiful so now you just like make
yourself as best as you can not teach
that
pseudo-class and then give up something
else and then give up something else and
then give up something else until you
ain't doing [ __ ] until you become what
twitch at is just sitting around doing
nothing all day instead of being this
trihard [ __ ] that you are you see
twitch at trying hard doesn't doesn't
pay you guys have the winning strategy
the the really sad and ironic thing is
that twitch chat tries really hard to
that's the problem is they try so so
hard and then they feel overwhelmed and
exhausted because you're trying so hard
man and it's just not working any way
thoughts or questions before we wrap up
no thank you very much for having me on
I really appreciated it I really loved
your insight into what's going on in my
life so so can you recap for us oh gee
what you understood about our
conversation today or what you think was
relevant or helpful
Waku as much as you can so understanding
I think a big thing that we talked about
was understanding what is futile because
in my life like I am approaching it in
such a way where I'm becoming the
problem because I'm not accepting that
giving up is acceptable to me and I'd
like dealing with feeling these emotions
of not being lovable
and then how do you like going like the
relationship between being unlovable and
like the freedom that it brings of like
accepting that you can go through your
life and be unlovable but at the same
time like it frees you from the burden
of trying and failing and trying and
failing and avoiding those cycles also
what else we we went over essentially it
like those cycles and depth of like
what's going on understanding that you
know someone's not going to pitch in to
the pot with their emotional investment
if you're doing all the work there if
you're that you're you know if you're
gonna just put fifty percent in if they
put fifty percent in that seems pretty
nice yeah so that's that's actually next
level [ __ ] so now like I want you to
really think about this other
relationship right this two-and-a-half
year relationship yep I think the
biggest problem with that relationship
is that you let her get away with giving
less than 50% because you wanted the
relationship to work so hard that you
gave a hundred percent and thereby you
let her off the hook if you want to feel
loved and if you want a relationship to
work out you can't do all of the work
you just can't right you've got to let
her do her part the problem is that if
you let her do her part
you're ceding control that she may not
do it and then the relationship could
fail in your seating control you see
that yes and I it's always weird because
I always feel like I'm never in control
yeah and so that's thus I'm fighting
against those invisible walls again
trying to gain back that powerlessness
yes so you've got to let yourself be
powerless yeah that's it's I don't know
there's so much other things that like
have contributed to like me being where
I am absolutely yeah and like
the good news og is that when people
have problems that are everything it's
been my overwhelming experience that if
you can you know grab this one thing
that a lot of things in your life will
come tumbling down
in terms of barriers I've seen that yeah
but beautifully point yeah my whole
thing is like I if I'm to give up I just
want to be able to do it with grace I
don't know but that's probably like ties
it into caring what other people think
beautiful see now you're getting there
you have to give up giving up with grace
you have to fail like a dumbass you have
to let yourself feel like a dumbass you
see like how ingrained it is every
thought that you have this attachment is
right behind it it's recursive man it's
like Inception you can go as many layers
as you want to and like it's always
gonna be there I want to give up with
grace
I want to fail magnificently right
because that yeah it's the implications
there it's just underneath the surface
absolutely yeah that's how it is good
yeah often yeah I say things out loud
and then I'll be like oh I didn't know I
felt that way well that makes sense you
know good that's good the other thing
that you can think about doing I don't
know if you've seen a therapist but you
should maybe see a therapist and talk
about your dad yeah that's another thing
that I'm dealing with too is just like
not not having medical insurance is
crazy but the university offers a a not
free well it is now but they were it's
like co-pays like 15 bucks it's nothing
sure but we've been I'm I've already
made progress though you got that yeah
but I could focus on that next time
so other thoughts oh gee I thought that
was a beautiful summary but if I mean I
jumped in there so I didn't yeah you
should play Final Fantasy 7 okay
it's really really good like they've
done a wonderful job you can tell like
that's something that I really like care
about nowadays it's like actually seeing
effort in video game so you can actually
see the effort saying you're like oh
there was passionate developers that
went into this game and you can see like
how passionate they were you can see
that in Final Fantasy 7 it's not just
formulaic soulless cobbled together
works by the gaming executives but a
game made by gamers I'm with you dude
for sure yeah you got like a bad
corporate takeover with video games it's
pretty terrible but no that game is
wonderful I think you'll really like it
if you play deep rock lactic that's a
really fun one too yeah yeah okay cool
man thanks for the recommendation and
good luck yeah and we're rooting for you
yes sir thank you again for having me on
I really do appreciate it Oh actually
hold on a second let me think about
meditation let's do meditation I keep on
chatter oh can I ask you yeah real quick
so with Ayurveda so I tried taking like
a lot of the Osho quizzes and everything
like that and I can't really find like a
really good one cuz I get like mixed
results but like half the time I come up
really strong on like Vata and then
other times I come up like predominantly
not pizza with the cough ah yes so I
don't know because the ones I've been
looking at lately it's been cough uh
yeah so so do you remember it have you
seen like any of the stuff that we've
done I rather did you watch the webinar
women I've watched I think I watched it
part of that I think I might watch that
one yeah so like if you guys watch that
part of it anywhere what's your question
um what would be a good way to like
tailor like cuz like my big thing I'm
ADHD too so it's like
organization is really important for me
and like I was like I've noticed there's
some things they're like oh that fits
perfectly with me and like you know with
these you know the dough shows and
everything like I
other sign yeah okay yeah I'm I'm like
for context I'm sitting down but I'm
like I know that they bring in a lot of
like body type like characteristics into
I'm like 6 foot 3 yep and like - yeah
but I'm kind of lanky at the same time
yep yeah so for those of y'all watching
it anyway so what's your question and
then before I die I just what would what
would you recommend as far as like cuz
like there's different diets that they
recommend I don't know like I'm trying
to look for like a template of like how
I can kind of organize myself yeah very
good so let's start by understanding
what you're though shot so you have a
very round face and a very sharp nose
right so you're kind of like a vodka
cough OH which like I haven't done a
great job in explaining about the
coupler because I kind of make them out
to be opposites but they're not they're
just three different axes right right so
you also have a very very classic story
for a vodka cava which is that you stay
in relationships and bad situations for
longer than you need to that's your
governess that's the down side of
resilience other people would have left
that relationship way earlier than two
and a half years but you have the
staying power to push against that
mountain for way longer than other
people do and we see the botanist
because you're not in a relationship for
10 years but you have frequent cycles of
the same thing so you have fluctuation
of like you find yourself in bad
situations very very often in in
different bad situations very very often
so we hear that from your like story
right like roommates and then this girl
and then friends who abandon you and
then switching careers and then becoming
a nurse and then like not become like
now you're in school again but that's a
whole nother but you're not you're not
full hot because you actually complete
your nursing degree you're gonna finish
school like you've got you see the
difference like this is vodka and cava
there's a lot of career changes but
they're not half-finished career changes
like bizarre and people may think that
oh at least getting a nursing degree is
better than not finishing a nursing
degree to which I would ask you like we
remember that it's not really better or
worse it's just like is it better to
fully finish a nursing degree if you're
not going to be a nurse
or better to abandon it and halfway yeah
that's a yeah so in terms of what to do
for hagatha I'd say eat warm foods of
like medium moisture make sure your
bowel movements are somewhat regular
make sure you're not constipated and you
want them to be a little bit yeah so
like warm foods is the most important
things you want to eat things that are
sour so sour fruits are gonna be very
good for you okay yeah I eat a lot of
mango as is good just naturally so-so
mango so actually you should do citrus
instead of mango so mango is kind of
creamy okay right so like you want foods
that are a little bit lighter than that
so mango actually increases Scotland
because it's like thinking creamy
pudding mango avocado these are fruits
like so pomegranate citrus those are
better tart fruits for you okay
berries also good
I mean mangoes look good for you but I
rather would say you can get a little
bit of mileage yeah there's yeah mango
and marijuana go together though yeah
yeah okay so great question and then I I
mean I need to do like more Ayurvedic
stuff about what you guys should do if
you have jobs I I love it because it's
just like I'm from the western side of
like the spectrum and how we like look
at medicine and then I see the eastern
kind of like take on it and it's not
that like I feel like oh this is very
weird and abstract and it's not true I
just feel like they have a different
context of like realizing things that
like Western medicine want because
they're they can't make the same leaps
and bounds yeah so it's just a different
kind of setup yeah and I I appreciate it
though like I like the whole the system
it's really like interesting to me
okay I have a meditation practice for
you sure ah you're gonna get you're so
screwed okay so I don't want you to sit
up straight all right okay it's gonna be
so simple and so hard so sit up straight
close your eyes and I want you to
observe your breath
so I want you to breathe three breaths
with full observation now as you observe
the breath is it changing are you
controlling it
um I follow it from like my lungs and I
feel it pass through all my Airways I
just feel it okay close close your eyes
yeah so is the rate or depth of your
breathing changing once you start to
observe it are you breathing differently
now that you're observing it yes okay I
want you to stop stop changing the
breath just observe it without changing
it
breathe exactly like you were while
we've been talking okay yeah all right
don't slow it down don't deepen it
don't make it artificially shallow see
it's really it's kind of a having a hard
time cuz I don't know if the problem is
I'm trying to breathe normally and I'm
trying something and I think that's tied
into this meditation technique I see
what you you're doing so do it close
your eyes this is really hard for me
okay
how's it working this is really hard
good that means you're doing it right
it's it's because like the first
instinct I have is to think how do i how
do I breathe normally what is my normal
breath pattern like but the problem is
it's like it's kind of like a
Schrodinger's cat thing cuz you don't
know like you'll never ya know hold on
so now let's think you're doing it right
so now tell so what first of all what's
Schrodinger's cat thing explain yourself
because I keep on cutting you off so it
it's like a talking about the observer
effect in like under like they use it
it's like an example to explain like
quantum phenomenon or shenanigans like
that but essentially the the cat inside
is in a state of like either being alive
or dead and the observer effect is view
opening that box and realizing what it
is but at the same time like you could
never know that possibility without
observing it so I think that's analogous
to this meditation exercise because I
will never truly know what my normal
breathing pattern is because in
observing it I am actually tainting the
experiment mm-hmm so what I'm hearing
from you is that you can't observe
without exerting at least a tiny bit of
control yes so what do you think and
then you were also kind of talking about
not knowing what your normal breathing
pattern is yeah because it's like I so
what what should you do about that
I kind of like one a shortcut the whole
thing and just not think about the
breathing at all okay what is that mean
that means like the because I feel like
I'll never truly be able to observe a
normal breath because that lingering
doubt of whether or not I'm exerting
control good a situation good so you've
leveled up beautifully done so now
you're ready for the second part of the
technique which you did very good so now
I'm gonna frame it for you a little bit
okay so the first is that you should do
this technique in two ways one is to sit
and do it with your eyes closed and the
second is to sneak attack it so huh like
so throughout the day see if you can
catch your breath and observe it without
it noticing that you're looking see if
you can notice it without changing there
but it's got to be a sneak attack
because if you start to observe it it's
gonna change so sneak attack it and do
both and see what you could figure out
very cool I like it
it'll reinforce that mental thought
process of being able to let go
hopefully yes yes right it'll also
reinforce the thought process of you
catching yourself throughout the day and
noticing what's going on inside you
right so it's to hold an awareness of
what you're looking for throughout your
day and once you can once you start
sneak attacking the breath and trying to
catch it here there you can also also be
on the lookout for the feeling of
unluckiness
good luck ma'am yep thank you again for
having me take care thanks for being on
here okay
all right
so I don't know if I I hope he's not
watching okay so oh gee if you're
watching you have to stop watching
actually and I won't say all right let's
see what do we want to do now do you
want to do to have time for a question
but maybe not let's see if we can hold
on see if we can oh yeah okay great hey
we have time for a question - yeah sure
let's do it let's do questions you know
yo man what's up what's up so I have to
get to kill questions so the first one
is or do we approach this situation in
different ways when we feel stuck in
life where we we should start and if we
should adopt new ways of thinking or
reflecting that's the first one so how
do you approach feeling stuck in life
yeah well so I think that depends a
little bit about how you're stuck but
I'd say the first thing you know the
takeaway from this week is that a lot of
people are not stuck because of what
life gives them but because of what they
put on themselves good right so the
first thing is like what is your
contribution to being stuck and should
you change your thinking
absolutely and oftentimes you want to
change it in kind of like the way that
like if you've been thinking that
there's this particular way to get out
of being stuck like let's say you don't
have any money and you're your thought
is like you know I need to get a job I
need to get a job I need to get a job
like if you're still stuck after having
that thought that you need to get a job
you need to maybe have a different kind
of thought so like just imagine take
getting a job off the table and asking
yourself like okay how do I get money
like if like it's not just about getting
a job like where else can I start to
move forward because if your mind has
come up with some
and those haven't worked for you is
logical as they may seem just let go get
solution okay so the second question is
oh do I make fenugreek seeds tastes
better because when I drink sometimes
seeds with water in the morning huh I
need to make look lots of effort to
drink it because it that stays yeah so
I'm sorry what was your question so
fenugreek seeds tastes bad or water
tastes good no fenugreek this bed or how
can I make it this but you can't make it
taste better
why do you want it to taste better so I
can drink it more often
why can't you drink it because it tastes
bad yeah because it's are hard to
swallow so or you soak them overnight so
they're soft yeah okay but taste my
teeth are do you chew them sometimes
okay so if you chew them they're gonna
be better but like my bigger question to
you what's your name buddy no no Sonu no
why is it that you let things that you
don't enjoy control your actions it's
already done you could be so why is it
that like something tasting bad keeps
you from doing it why can't you eat
things that taste bad yeah because I
don't know I have to think about it good
then think about it that's exactly what
I want you to do so this is I have a
meditation practice for you today you
know okay what do you have in your house
that you don't like to eat what those
things like what like doubles like it
fell that's and things like do you have
like something in your house right now
that you can go pick up and eat and put
into your mouth I think so okay
so go and eat that thing go go do it now
and then don't ask yourself yeah so like
I'm gonna tell you what to do so I want
you to ask yourself like what is it
about this that I don't enjoy and can I
do this or does the lack of enjoyment
like hold me back from doing it because
the reason that your stock may be very
very different from the reason that og
is stuck and also the same because it
sounds like you don't let yourself do
things that you don't enjoy and if you
could do the things that you don't enjoy
then you wouldn't be stuck anymore so it
is you that's holding yourself back
because you don't like something like
you're not gonna move anywhere in life
if you don't do things that you don't
like if you can free yourself of being
restricted by the things that you like
too then life becomes really really easy
yeah so go and eat and for those of you
at home I want you guys to spend as long
as you can eating things that are a
balanced diet and also the things that
you liked the least so the next time
that you make a meal or you good I mean
no one's going to restaurants nowadays
but let's say you go and pick up food
you're gonna order food right if you go
and get takeout you're gonna have
options between things that you like and
things that you don't like and the funny
thing about us is we always order the
things that we like so I want you guys
to practice ordering the things that you
don't like or eating the things that you
don't like okay and if you get good if
the things that you don't like no longer
control you then how would your life
change you know do you have any idea
yeah I think I would be morality like
and a lot of things I can take like
sometimes I I don't like to study but I
need to do it but if I could just
observe the feeling of not liking to
study I think
I could study for example good so
there's a there's actually like a pretty
extreme meditative practice called a
gory sadhana so sadhana means spiritual
practice gore means fear and aghori
means no fear so these are people that
as part of their spiritual practice do
not let fear control what they do so
they live in cemeteries practice
cannibalism in all kinds of other weird
[ __ ] they tend to be like pretty
infamous but there's like a spiritual
practice that kind of says that like if
you want control over yourself you have
to do things that you sort of find
repulsive I'm not saying that you guys
should do things that you find repulsive
but I'm saying that like think about how
bad you how much your life is restricted
by the things that you like or don't
like and if you could remove that if you
could like everything equally and
playing a video game was no different
from studying imagine what you could
accomplish yeah and if you want to start
walking that road
it starts with little little things like
ordering the food that you like the
least on the menu that's very true
good luck man ready for next
it is difficult
[Music]
hello hey time hey dr. K I was wondering
if your body can become addicted to a
certain emotion
oh that's an interesting question what
do you think well we see addiction
addiction the behavior right is usually
triggered by the lack of emotion in the
when you are young or something like
that right we're basically reacting to a
sense car so but but there is like
addiction to alcohol so we're when
people try to go cold turkey or alcohol
the the body reacts right because yeah
it needs that alcohol it has been for
functioning for so long with the
substance the body that basically needs
to stay alive so if you have been like
[ __ ] touch our co-workers or said like
that you made become addicted to that
you don't pay off that you get for the
[ __ ] talk or whatever yeah so I mean
that makes sense to me so I wouldn't
really call that an addiction but let me
just try to clarify a couple of terms so
I I think everything you said makes
sense
the first thing is that I don't think
that people use addictive behaviors when
they're not feeling anything
I think they usually use addictive
behaviors when they are feeling
something negative because the addictive
behavior takes away the feeling of
negativity so oh gee like sometimes
engages in sexual relationships or
people use substances because they feel
sad or lonely or on law
or whatever with me I think a lot of
times you aren't aware of what the
emotion is but usually I think about
addictive behaviors as making bad
emotions go away all right with me or
not with me yeah yeah it's coping quiet
yep exactly that's a great way to put
describe addiction now so then your
question is like can your body be
addicted to certain feelings and I mean
I I was kind of envisioning like sitting
in a chair like can I get addicted to
sitting in a chair I mean the short
answer is sort of like I don't know if
it's really an addiction but I think
that generally speaking the mind and
body are drawn to things that satisfy
certain needs
so shit-talking your coworkers I
wouldn't really call that an addiction I
would call that like satisfying your ego
and you could call satisfaction of ego
your addiction but that sounds like so
you can definitely have repetitive
behaviors that create common feelings in
your body I just don't know that I would
quite classify that as an addiction does
that make sense
like I think it makes sense that you
would frequently shit-talk your
coworkers because you feel better and
then you will you will seek that feeling
better over and over and over again but
in my mind like even though those two
things sound the same I feel like there
are different words to describe those
one word just hasn't been invented yet
but I think though like the mechanism of
addiction and the mechanism of ego is
being like separate neurological
pathways like there are different parts
of the brain ok but like emotions right
like they'd be a collagen right sure and
like we have so much cortisol so much
stuff so can we get it like addicted to
that cortisol level it takes behavior
to reach that that cortisol like get
stressed purpose yes sort of but once
again I wouldn't quite use the word
addiction because addiction means a
specific thing neuro scientifically so
but can you get into patterns where you
like so like there are adrenaline
junkies right so adrenaline junkies are
in a sense addicted to certain kinds of
behaviors because they like the feeling
of like adrenaline pumping through their
veins
so reward so I would call it reward
chasing as opposed to addiction because
reward chasing involves like under if we
talk about reward chasing addiction is
on you know all addictions are reward
chasing but not all reward chasing is an
addiction oh I see you know got it so
like I don't yet I mean just because I
love to play a video game
doesn't mean that I'm addicted to a
video game even though I like that
feeling like I mean I recently I've been
talking about deep rock collective cuz
that's what I've been playing because I
can play for like 25 minutes at a time
which is nice cuz I have kids but like I
like to play it I enjoy it because we
definitely have reward circuitry that
reinforces behaviors but not all reward
circuitry that reinforces a behavior is
an addiction but can people do people
want to engage in a behavior that
rewards them in a particular way whether
it be physiologic or psychological
absolutely or their hormones involved
absolutely can you get can you want to
[ __ ] talk your coworkers because it
makes you feel good like in making pumps
up your ego absolutely do people do that
kind of [ __ ] every day does it kind of
look like an addiction absolutely but I
would still say that neuroscientific Lee
the mechanisms the circuits in the brain
that are activating are different and
then the circuits that activate during
addiction okay cool thanks yeah great
question man thank you